Our sacred service is our sacrifice, our gift to Jehovah.
But here's a key point.
Before Jehovah looks at our gift, he looks at us.
He must accept us first if he's to accept our gift.
So here's the key question then.
What does Jehovah look for in us?
We're going to use three Bible examples to explore that question.
Let's begin in the most holy of the tabernacle on the day of atonement.
A high priest's mission is to offer sin offering for himself and for the nation.
But before he can do that, Jehovah tells him to do something very specific as depicted here.
It's recorded in Leviticus chapter 16 verses 12 and 13.
So please turn with me to that.
Leviticus chapter 16, the first time he enters the most holy on that day,
he will then take the firehold of full of burning calls from the altar before Jehovah,
to handfuls of fine perfumed incense, and he will bring them inside the curtain.
He will also put the incense on the fire before Jehovah,
and the cloud of the incense will envelop the ark cover, which is on the testimony,
so that he may not die.
Clearly, from their last phrase,
Jehovah needed to approve of the high priest and what he did if he was to accept the sin offering.
He had to bring an incense.
In the Bible, incense is associated with prayer.
So clearly, the high priest had to come in with a humble, prayerful attitude.
Imagine, though, if he decided to bring his own incense recipe because he preferred that smell.
Did Jehovah likely to accept that?
Or what if he followed the procedure perfectly?
But yesterday, he was leading the nation in worship to Molek.
Would Jehovah approve of what he did on this day?
So what qualities was Jehovah looking for in the high priest?
A humble, prayerful attitude, strict obedience to direction, moral and spiritual integrity.
Everything on that day, the high priest and his sin offering, pictured Jesus Christ.
So what can we learn from Jesus while he was on earth?
There's a beautiful description in Hebrews chapter 5, verses 7 and 8.
Let's read together in that verse and pick out what this tells us about Jesus.
Hebrews 5, 7 and 8.
During his life on earth, Christ offered up supplications and also petitions with strong outcries and tears
to the one who was able to save him out of death.
And he was favorably hurt for his godly fear.
Although he was a son, he learned obedience from the things he suffered.
Supplications and petitions.
Although he was the perfect son of God, Jesus humbly recognized his total dependence on his father.
From verse 8, it's easy to pick up that key quality.
He was perfectly obedient in carrying out Jehovah's will for him.
And what about this phrase at the end of verse 7?
He was favorably hurt for his godly fear.
Yes, Jesus fervent desire to please Jehovah in everything.
That was the source of his perfect integrity.
The question though is why?
What moved Jesus to do these things?
Well, in his own words, John 1431, in order for the world to know that I love the father.
What did Jehovah see in Jesus?
He saw remarkable humility, total dependence on his father, perfect obedience, flawless integrity,
and the purest of motives, love for his father.
It's no wonder that Jehovah looked down and said,
this is my son, the beloved whom I have approved.
Jehovah approved Jesus, and he approved of the ransom sacrifice.
So now it's down to us.
What is Jehovah looking for in you and me?
Well, as with Jesus, he's looking for the right qualities and the right motive.
So qualities and motive.
That's familiar to us, even in human relationships.
We've all seen the picture of a sheepish husband who comes home carrying a big bouquet of flowers.
Well, he's done something that's going to make his wife angry when she finds out,
and he wants to appease her to make her less angry.
Is she going to be happy with that?
She may accept the flowers, but she does not want to be appeased.
What she wants is a loyal husband to give her a gift because he loves her, qualities and motive.
So with this in mind, let's learn one further lesson from the example of King David.
Now, Jehovah had told David that he would not be the one that would build the temple,
and David obeyed Jehovah's direction, but he loved pure worship.
He wanted to do something.
So David carefully studied the temple plan that Jehovah gave him, and then he brought Jehovah a gift.
And what a gift it was.
From his personal fortune, gold, silver, so many other things.
You know, just the gold and silver from his personal fortune was worth almost $6 billion.
When David was ready to present that gift to Jehovah, he said a special prayer.
And we're going to look at it in First Chronicles chapter 29,
verses 10 through 17 is the prayer, it's worth its own study project.
But we'll look at just a few key points.
Please look to see what each of these reveals about David as the giver of the gift.
So First Chronicles chapter 29 verse 14.
Who am I? Who are my people that we should be in a position to make voluntary offerings like this?
For everything is from you, and we have given you what comes from your own hand.
Wow. Despite his rank, his seniority,
David humbly recognized what it privileged was to be able to do anything for Jehovah.
Now glance down at verse 17.
What would make Jehovah approve of this gift?
I will know, oh my God, that you examine the heart and that you take pleasure in integrity.
In the uprightness of my heart, I voluntarily offered all these things.
That's why Jehovah would approve the gift.
Now bear in mind, David has just presented to Jehovah billions of dollars worth of gifts.
And yet look at verse 13.
This is his motive.
And now, oh my God, we thank you and praise your beautiful name.
His gratitude moved David to give everything that he possibly could to Jehovah.
So how are we like David when we give gifts to Jehovah?
Or we humbly recognize what a privilege it is to be able to do anything for Jehovah.
We keep strict obedience to direction.
We fight to maintain our integrity.
It's our love and our gratitude that moves us to give Jehovah everything that we can.
Our very best.
When Jehovah sees these qualities and these motives in us, then he's very pleased.
And he will be pleased to accept our gift, whether we give him the fortune of David or the widow's might.
So what gift will you bring to Jehovah today?
Jehovah smile when he sees you.
And may he approve of your good qualities, your good motive.
And may he turn your gift into a blessing for you and for many others.